[MUSIC]
In this video, we're creating a whole
bunch of depth to our code by using
functions and creating our own functions
to encapsulate our statements, so
that when we push up, up,
up, it all works correctly.
Hit Enter, the game starts all over again.
And we can hit down, down, down, Enter.
And it's putting in the correct numbers
at the correct time to create a full
game loop.
So let's jump in and
get our game completed.
When we look at our start function here,
you can see there's a lot going on.
Just a reminder,
I'm gonna be using the words function and
method pretty much interchangeably.
For this video, I'll stick with function.
So we've just got the ones who
are not bouncing around too much.
But I tend to say method a bunch as well.
We have our Start function.
There's a lot going on here.
What I'm gonna do is
create another function
that allows us to encapsulate these
statements, this information.
Again, we'll talk about
encapsulation a bunch in this video.
So if you come down underneath your Start
function, give yourself a couple of extra
spaces and type void StartGame,
capital S, capital G for StartGame.
And open brackets, and
it will close them automatically.
Next line, open curly braces and Enter.
We have the structure and
the shape of a function.
So what are we doing here?
What are we doing when we're
creating a new function?
Let me give you a little bit context..
So here's how we write a function,
here's our function definition.
Function we can think of as a contract.
It's a recipe, it's a contract,
it's things that we want to have happen.
And like our variables,
naming is important for
functions because it's doing a thing.
We wanna make sure we have doing words in
there, descriptive words that are verbs.
So this is StartGame.
It's telling us WHAT to do.
Also, we have the () down the end
is where we put parameters.
At the moment, we don't have anything
inside the (), so it's doing nothing.
We're gonna talk a lot more about
parameters in upcoming sections.
But for now, just know that we
don't have any parameters for
our very simple definition
we're creating here.
And to start, we have the word void.
And the word void could be
replaced with other things.
Again, in the future,
we'll talk about that a bunch more.
For now, we just need to know that void
means that there's no Return value.
When I shout out StartGame,
it's not shouting anything back to me
saying, you wanna know the number seven?
There's nothing at the moment
that is being returned.
So that's why we put in void.
And in future content,
we'll be having return values.
But for now, we don't need that.
We're just saying void, StartGame, and ().
And then underneath our void StartGame,
we have our open curly braces,
all the statements that we want to
contain, the ingredients of our recipe,
and then closed curly brackets.
So curly braces,
technically, they're called.
Let's jump back over.
And here I don't have a big challenge
slide for you in this lecture.
I've just got a couple of mini challenges.
My mini challenge here is to take all of
the content from our Start function and
put it into our StartGame function.
So pause the video and
transfer that information in there now.
Okay, so we can just highlight, do
a Ctrl+X, or Cmd+X if you're on the Mac.
And make sure we indent and
then paste in there.
So now all of this
content is in StartGame.
And if we save and jump back over
into Unity, start the game now,
we'll see that none of our instructions
will appear on the screen.
Taking a moment to think about it,
there we go.
There's nothing there.
And that's because we're not
calling this function anywhere.
What calling it means is to say,
I want you to do this now.
Literally, it's like, hey, start game.
And the place that we can do
that is in our Start function.
We know that Start will be called cuz
that's part of Unity's underlining system.
Start always gets called
if we have Start in there.
We don't need to call Start.
Unity engine will call Start.
But we need to call out StartGame cuz
that's a function that we've created.
So we can say very simply
in here StartGame.
We type it here,
we don't say it, we type it.
StartGame and then ; cuz it's a statement,
so written the same way.
This is saying,
I want you to do StartGame.
And what is that?
Well, we come down here, and
all of these statements will be executed.
So it's exactly the same functionalities
when we had them all in there.
But it tidies it up, it encapsulates it.
So now when we look at Start,
what happens when we start our the game?
It does the StartGame.
It's like, yes, I know the StartGame
gives the instructions.
And then if we need to go and find out
the details, we can come down here and
have a look.
But we're not bombarded with
them right at the very start.
So it's a really lovely way for
us to organize our code,
keep everything very readable and
to encapsulate.
What is encapsulate, I hear you say?
Moving code into a function
is "encapsulating" it.
That's what we're doing with that process.
And think of en-capsulate-ating.
You're putting in a capsule essentially.
Or we can see it as a black box.
So we look back here,
here is our black box.
And there's a bunch of stuff
that happens in there.
If we're content that that's going well,
we don't need to dig into the black box.
All we need to know is that we're saying,
start the game.
And it enables us to "let go of the how".
So the point I've made a couple of times
is all we need to know is that we have to
start the game.
And that's when all
the instructions happen.
How is that happening?
Well,
we either taken care of that previously or
we don't need to know about it right now.
And it lets us not get swamped in all of
the details at every step of our journey.
And the general process of what we're
doing here as well is called refactoring.
The reason we refactor is to make
our code readable, easy to read.
Code is huge in programming.
Super important,
you'll see throughout this entire course.
We spend a lot of time on naming and
a lot of time on having our code readable.
If you have readable code,
it makes bug finding way easier,
bug solving way easier.
And it makes the whole process
of creating your product,
creating your game more enjoyable.
Now that we've created one function with
our encapsulating, let's create a second.
And a really good clue for
when we should look to create a function
is when you see repeated code.
So this line of code is exactly
the same as that line of code,
which means we could refactor that.
We could factor that out.
Let's scoot down the bottom of our script.
The second last curly bracket, hit Enter.
So we still have one curly bracket.
You can see this one relates to the one
at the very top of our class up there,
that one and that one.
So we're putting it in between the last
and the second to last curly bracket.
You're gonna start with void cuz,
again, we have no return type.
We will call this NextGuess.
Open and closed parentheses and
then open and closed curly brackets.
And here's the next challenge I have for
you is within our code in our if
statements here to take the two lines of
code to refactor them into NextGuess and
then to substitute where
those lines of code were for
our function of NextGuess,
just like we did at the top here.
So pause the video and do that
refactoring, that encapsulating now.
Okay, hopefully that went well for you.
We need to take these two lines of code.
I'll just x them out, Ctrl+X,
paste them down in here.
Now we have our NextGuess as a function.
I'll add NextGuess, and
you can see the autocomplete
knows it should be autocompleted.
It's got a squiggly line because
we need to have our open and
closed brackets to say that there's
nothing, there's no parameters.
And then a ; at the end,
we'll do exactly the same here.
I don't need to copy and
paste this cuz we already have it.
I don't need to go and, again,
put that down on the bottom.
I can just type in,
if i do it correctly, Tab, Tab,
NextGuess, it autocompleted for
me, () and ;.
So now we have our NextGuess();.
We have our encapsulation for
StartGame();.
Let's save, hop back over into Unity,
make sure this works.
Don't wanna pat ourselves
on the back just yet.
Let's pat ourselves on the back
in a moment if this all works.
Hit Play.
You can see the instructions
are coming in.
If I hit up, it's taking me up.
Hit down, it's taking me down.
And it's giving us
the instructions as we want it to.
So this process we've made
our code a lot cleaner.
And we're developing
a really good habit for
how we can make beautiful code moving
forward when our projects get gigantic and
huge, which I know yours will as you make
bigger and huger more awesome games.
Last thing we wanna do in this lecture,
I'll push through this nice and quickly,
so bear with us here, is to see what's
going on when we try to restart our game.
So let's say up, up, up, and then Enter,
you got it correct, and then that's it.
Up and down, it's still trying
to guess from the same place.
What we need to do is a question for
you in terms of our challenge,
what do we need to do in here?
What would we do to have
our game start again,
when you say I have won the game,
when you say you've got it correct?
What would we need to call
to start the game again?
Okay, if you guessed StartGame,
then you would be correct.
So I'm gonna trot all the way down
the bottom here to my else if for
did you get it correct where we have our
key code return, and type in StartGame();.
And then save, jump back over into Unity,
click on Play.
And then up, up, up, Enter.
And then we get all our
instructions over again.
It's a lot to look at in here.
The console's not really made for
this kinda stuff.
It's so that we can practice our C#
without having to worry about all
the Unity interface just yet.
But we can see that that is successful
that our instructions are being reprinted.
But tell me if your number is higher and
lower than 938 and
the highest number you can pick is 1,001,
that doesn't make sense.
So success on getting
instructions in there,
but not success in terms of
having our numbers correct.
Let's jump back into our script and
see what's going on here.
If we look at the logic of what's
happening here, when we start our Start
function and say StartGame,
we're going through all of our intro text.
And we're saying print out the max.
And the max, when we very first declare
them and initialize them, is 1000.
But throughout our game,
we're changing what the max is.
So in here, we're saying, the max =
the guess, if we've pushed up a few times.
And then when we say, StartGame again,
it will say, okay, cool.
I'll start the game, and
it's remembering our max level.
So then, within StartGame,
we need to be putting our values back to
where we want them in the original sense.
So let's give ourselves
a little bit of space at
the top of StartGame and say, max = 1000,
min = 1, and guess, you guessed it = 500.
And just a quick note when we're
defining our variables in here,
we don't need to say int again.
We've already declared,
it already knows that this is an integer,
we've already told it that up
here at our member variables.
So all we need to do down here in our
local variables is just to say, well, max,
which we already know,
is of type int, should be 1000.
We could remove this up here and
say, well,
we don't actually need to
have any values at the start.
Because we will be defining them
straight away in StartGame or hit Save,
jump back over into our build,
click on Play.
And just make sure you have
collapse turned off or
else everything gets bunched up together.
It's hard to see what's going on.
We'll hit up, up, up, Enter.
And it starts everything again.
1001, 500 great, down, down,
down, Enter 1150, fantastic.
So we've created a full game
loop here where our game starts,
gives us the correct numbers,
we can replay it again.
We've talked about having
our variables within our
newly created StartGame function.
We're calling our StartGame
function from Start.
We've created a new function for
NextGuess.
That's allowed us to encapsulate this
information, these statements down here.
Makes our else statements, our if and
our else statements cleaner.
So now we're just saying NextGuess and
StartGame.
And our whole loop is complete,
so well done.
Huge congratulations on
working through this section.
Give yourself a huge high five and
a pat of the back.
Cuz you have created something
that is very excellent.
You've created working code and
a working game mechanic.
Great work!
I'll see you in an upcoming video.